Hey everyone, welcome back. My name is Drew and this is Annie and we're continuing our journey through the book of Mark and we're going to be in chapter 7 and specifically looking at verses 1 through 10.
11 through 23 today.
Yeah, we're going to have a conversation around the idea of living life from the inside out. How do we live life according to what's inside of us instead of
Instead of what's around us. And sometimes what's around us look like our own actions, our own practices that we put into play every day. Our so-called roots.
100% routine. Drew, what's like a ritual or routine that you have in your day-to-day? Routine, no doubt. I love limb brushes. I limp brush. I guess...
I guess if you'd say, "D-lint yourself from head to toe," I'd do that every day.
Do you do you have any pets i have no pets i just like having no i'm very committed he's committed i love it i know for me i love driving the same way
way to work every day. I love taking the same route, the same road. Sometimes when it's not even the fastest, I should check my GPS. But I don't just because it's a
It's a ritual and a practice. And although those are kind of some silly or lighter examples of practices that we put into play every day, sometimes there's some
that really have an impact on our spiritual lives. Like maybe it's even checking our phones in the morning, or maybe you just go to church every Sunday.
today just to check off a box and you forgot even why you went. Today in Mark 7, Jesus talks about this idea of living life from
from the inside out and how to put purpose behind what we do and why we do it. And so to provide some context around this first part of Mark 7.
There were a group of people called the Pharisees, and the Pharisees were religious leaders. They were very committed to rituals and practices.
in the Jewish religion at that time. And so what happened was they came and they went to observe Jesus and his disciples, how they did ministry. And there was nothing wrong.
wrong with what they were doing. It was how they were observing them. And so they go and they're about to eat together and they recognize that the disciples did
They didn't wash their hands before they ate. And back then, that was ceremonial tradition. They put so much value on
You almost to the extent of holding it equivalent to a sin, to not wash your hands. And then they noticed that the disciples were doing all these other things, like also...
Also not watching their cups or watching their plates or all these kind of things that they were committed to doing that the Pharisees were committed to living out.
And they ask Jesus, they're like, "Why aren't the disciples doing this type of action? Why aren't they following the ceremonial traditions that we value?"
We value so highly. And Jesus responds to them. If you look in verse 9, it says, You have a fine way of setting aside the
the commands of God.
in order to observe your traditions. Because what was happening was that the Pharisees were comparing and holding to the same value.
There are traditions and there are rituals that didn't come from the word of God, that didn't come from the Old Testament. They were just holding them to the same level and the same value in it.
And it causes you to ask yourself and even to reflect on why do I do the things that I do? Jesus says nothing outside a person can defile them from going to
going into them. Rather, it's what comes out of a person that defiles them. So it's a whole paradigm shift from what was previously held
in Judaism to everything outside of you affects what's inside of you. To know Jesus is challenging that thought by saying, "No, it's actually not."
What comes outside and inside of you that impacts your life. And that term defile means impure. It's that idea of it's
It's impacting the purity of your life, the putting your worth in your relationship with God directly connects to this idea of deficit.
of defilement. And Jesus goes on further to say that it's what's in a person that defiles them, for it is within, out of a person's thought.
Thoughts that
out of a person's heart that evil thoughts comes. And he gives a whole list of sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, greed, madness,
Eight of malice, deceit, lewdness, envy, slander, arrogance, and follies. All these evils come from inside a person and defy.
defile a person. And it's this idea of living life from the inside is what matters. It's what matters.
It counts. You know, I remember, Drew, about five years ago, I actually had open heart surgery. And as I was walking through that journey, I really...
really saw so many parallels between the spiritual life and having open heart surgery because I recognized how your heart, although it's there, and I don't really
don't really think about my heart on a day-to-day basis. I feel it beat when I put energy out or when I have a rush of adrenaline. But I'm not necessarily thinking
thinking about my heart. But when I had open-heart surgery, I was able to recognize how profoundly it impacted every part of my life. From the inside, your heart, the deep
The deepest place of who you are, it was impacting my energy levels. I was exhausted all the time before I had surgery. I was so tired, I felt like I was going to pass out.
I'd have shortness of breath. And it was all coming from my heart. And that's what Jesus cares about the most. He cares about the heart of Jesus.
of who you are. It means the deepest part of who you are. So Jesus is always looking at the heart. So now,
So now we're just going to have a little conversation of what does it look like to live life from the inside out and kind of what's the difference between a religious practice and a spiritual practice.
And a spiritual discipline. How do we hold the two together? Yeah, I think just in our relationship with God.
Jesus, we can just be thinking of like, well,
We said like we're children of God, you know, we're sons and daughters of him. But sometimes I think we can place ourselves as employees trying to go up the ranks. You know what I mean? So it's not working from
Working from a place of love, it's looking to earn love in that situation. And whatever you're doing, like, hey, I go to church or, hey, I pray in order for the Lord to look down upon me and be pleased.
be pleased. Maybe some of you have heard the term, it's like not working for our salvation, but we're working out our salvation. Because again, it comes down to
And it's down to us understanding like truly and letting the gospel come alive in our hearts of like, man, like I don't have to earn this. Jesus truly paid it all. It was done in all, but practically what?
It's like, man, it can start just simply in prayer life. It can start in devotions. It can start while you're going to church. It's like, man, it's not for me.
for me. I don't go because of this. So really, yes, it could be practical steps, but I think it's more of like this, this mental shift as well as a heart shift, as you're saying, it's like, Lord, I hope that you'll
that you align it to me that the gospel comes alive in my heart that I live as a child, not as an employee of you. - Mm-hmm.
Yeah, that's so good. I'm thinking about the verse in Proverbs that talks about guarding your heart. For out of it, everything flows. It's a wellspring of life. Everything.
Everything flows from it. And that idea of guarding your heart does come back to those spiritual disciplines of prayer, of reading your Bible, living life in community, which I'm knowing.
No, we talked about quite a few times in our message takeaways, but that's because it really matters and there's so much value. But the difference kind of between
between that spiritual discipline or maybe a religious mandate or a duty comes back to that idea even of worth of if I don't do
Don't do something that will directly impact how God sees me. Like I would no longer be loved as much. I would no longer be viewed as much.
And it's almost like I know I was talking to someone at my gym the other day and they were saying, "Man, if I don't come, I feel like my self-esteem goes down."
And it's like no no no you are still fully loved you're still fully human you are still fully valuable even if you don't go to the gym that day and I think that's
I think that that's kind of oftentimes how we can live in our relationship with God. We think, okay, we encourage you to read your Bible. We encourage you to pray every day. Those are really valuable things.
But when they become rituals, that's when we can lose the power of what God is doing. We start replacing these rituals.
Yeah. rituals with a lifestyle of following Jesus. So now we're just going to take time to pray and we're going to ask God to search our hearts and
and discover together how we can live life from the inside out. Let's pray.
God, I thank you so much that you look at what matters, that you look at our hearts, God, and thank you that our relationship with Jesus, it truly does change everything.
Everything and it brings so much life.
So, God, I pray that as we sit in this moment, Lord, that you would show us areas of our lives where maybe we have put a practice in place of a relationship with you today.
or we've put these rituals in place to thinking that we are covering our basis, God. I pray that you would show us what that looks like.
And that you would reveal those things to us, God. That we would be a community that lives life from the inside out. God, show us how to do this.
How to do that? Through your word, through prayer, through community. Lord, show us how to live a life that is pure on the
on the inside and reflects on the outside, God. We thank you and praise you that you see us, that you're with us, and that we can live a life that honors you.
And in your name we pray. Amen. Amen.
In the